Hey welcome back.
I want to take a quick second to talk about this idea of data transfer from servers to the browsers.
Now we saw that when we opened the developer tools we can go to the Network tab and actually see what
type of data gets sent from the server.
And here we saw that there's different types but we mainly talked about the HDMI all CSX and javascript
but we also see that there is a few other types in here.
If I click on let's say the HMO there's this field called content type that says it's a text ACM Alpha.
Now this is something quite important because it uses something called a MIME type and it stands for
multi-purpose Internet mail extensions.
Sounds very impressive doesn't it and you see here and I'll link to this resource and let's make this
a little bit bigger that browsers use this mind type not the file extension to determine how to process
a you are well.
So they look at the content type that our flask app actually automatically sends to the browser to determine
what to do with that file so that they know hey is it an Asian file.
Is it a CSF file.
Is it a javascript file now at the end of the day.
All this data that we're transferring it's all just text but they can be in different forms and the
browsers can interact with them in different ways.
For example if we scroll all the way down here we have different types but we want to focus on the important
mind types for web developers.
We have things such as plain text.
We have CSX we have HMO.
We have Javascript so that if I go to the javascript file here and I go to content type I see that.
Yep it's application javascript and we see here that there's a little note about why it's application
javascript here instead of text javascript.
Either way this way the browser knows I'm about to read a javascript file do some certain things because
it is a javascript file.
Now if we keep scrolling down there's also image types.
So again if we look at the images let's say the PMG again if we scroll down we see that it's an image
PMG at the end of the day.
It's actually text that we receive from the server but in a way that it can be read as APM EGFR.
So based on this knowledge Web sites work by sending all this data and letting the browser take care
of while building the page for us now so far we've only talked about HMRC SS and JavaScript and usually
that's how Web sites are displayed but there's different ways that we can also use servers such as what
we call API endpoints.
So right here I have the swampy dot CEO which stands for the Star Wars API and what it does.
As you can see here is it sends us data.
So instead of displaying a Web page it just sends us information.
So for example if I copy this like so and then let's say we do people over here so let's do people.
If I hit enter
Look at that I get this data and this content type is will be called Jason and Jason is just this format
of data that we can use in our applications.
So again a Web site might take this data and perhaps display the name Luke Skywalker on the front page
so this end point instead of sending a schmaltzy SS in JavaScript just sends us this Jason data because
at the end of the day all a server does is sent some data right.
It serves data we can send all sorts of things.
For example this robo hash Web site if I do let's say anything I want in here and I hit enter it sends
me a random image of a robot.
If I change anything in the Sandpoint I get a different robot so web developers and mobile developers
use this idea of servers all around the world to try and grab information grab data from a server and
display something useful on a browser.
And I hope this shows you the power the servers have.
We can do anything.
The options are limitless and we can build all sorts of servers with Python to do all sorts of things
for us.
All right let's get back to our portfolio Web site.